---
layout: post
title: '"Yak Shaving"?'
---

I had to look it up.

TL;DR: its unclarity is rivalled by the stupidity of its origins.

Basically it's a sort of pejorative for layers of distractions, such as:

* I need to wash the carnage off the driveway.
  * But the hose is a mess, I should go ahead and replace the hose.
    * Since the hardware store is far away, I should stop at the recycling center on the way.
      * I need to finish shredding these documents, if I'm going recycling.
        * But first, I want to discuss one of them with the lawyer.
          * Visiting the lawyer requires switching disguises...
            * etc
* Next day: the carnage is still on the driveway.

This is generally implied to be undesirable.  In [Don't Shave That Yak!](http://sethgodin.typepad.com/seths_blog/2005/03/dont_shave_that.html), Seth Godin suggests a solution: don't go to the hardware store; use the hose as is.

Of course, a computer scientist could go on at great length about the analogy
with BFS vs DFS, stack depth, scheduling, continuations, pre-emption, and
latency vs throughput.  "But I'm not going to do that."

[Joi Ito's writeup](https://joi.ito.com/weblog/2005/03/05/yak-shaving.html)
contains an alternate perspective from the standard condemnation.  It's worth
reading to get the full effect, but here's the conclusion:

> ... Actually, my whole life is just one big yak shaving exercise. Luckily, these subroutines ARE my life and are very rewarding.
> ... it is through this fiddling that I sometimes find myself in a new place, sometimes slightly before the rest of the pack. If it weren't for this fiddling, I'd be spending my life solving boring problems for boring bosses.
